.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii rozofs_status.py.8
.\"
.TH ROZOSTATUS.PY 8 "OCTOBER 2015" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
rozofs_status.py \- RozoFS status utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rozofs_status.py
[
.I -dfh
]
[
.I -e <export host>
]
.B
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rozofs_status.py
is a diagnostic tool that interfaces RozoFS thank to rozodiag tool, to make some diagnostics of a RozoFS system. 
This script returns an execution code that reflects the status of the RozoFS system:
.IP "0 = OK"
.RS
RozoFS status is OK.
.RE
.IP "1 = WARNING"
.RS
RozoFS is providing service, but some errors have been detected that may eventually need a fix.
.RE
.IP "2 = ERROR"
.RS
Some errors that may prevent the good functionning of RozoFS have been detected. A fix is required.
.RE
.IP "-e <export host>"
.RS
<export host> is a '/' separated list of IP addresses or host names of the export nodes. Default is 127.0.0.1, and
may be used when running the script on the host running the active exportd.
.RE
.IP "-h"
.RS
Print help. 
.RE
.IP "-d"
.RS
when this option is set the script displays the list of detected defaults.
.RE
.IP "-f"
.RS
when this option is set more diagnostic tests are run.
.RE
.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bugs@fizians.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2013 Fizians SAS. <http://www.fizians.com>

RozoFS is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, version 2.

RozoFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH AUTHOR
Fizians <http://www.fizians.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rozofs (7),
