.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii rozofs.conf.5
.\"
.TH rozofs.conf 5 "APRIL 2015" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
rozofs.conf \- RozoFS common configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B "rozofs.conf"
is managed thanks to 
.B libconfig
<http://www.hyperrealm.com/libconfig/> and thus complies to the
.B libconfig
grammar.

.SS numa_aware
That boolean (True or False) enables to take into account the NUMA architecture of the board in order to collocate some RozoFS modules on a same node. This may improve the inter process communication performance. 

.SS file_distribution_rule
This parameter enables to choose the file distribution rule at file creation. The following rules are defined:
.RS
- 0 "size balancing" (default)
.RS
  The cluster with the more available disk space is chosen.
  The SIDs with the more available disk space are chosen within this cluster.
  The device with the more available disk space is chosen within a storio.
.RE
- 1 "weighted round robin"
.RS
  The clusters are selected in a round robin maner.
  The SIDs with the more available disk space are chosen within this cluster.
  The devices are allocated in a round robin maner within a storio.
  The clusters and storages are re-ordered in decreasing cluster and storage available disk space order every 12s.
.RE
- 2 "strict round robin"
.RS
  The clusters are selected in a round robin maner.
  The SIDs are chosen in round robin maner.
  The devices are allocated in a round robin maner within a storio.
.RE
.RE	    

.SS trashed_file_per_run
Maximum number of file that the remove bins thread of a slave export can remove in a run. A 2 seconds delay occurs between every run. 

.SS core_file_directory
The directory under which the RozoFS modules store their core files in case a crash occurs. 

.SS nb_core_file
Maximum number of core file to keep on this node per RozoFS module type. The older core files are kept while the newest ones are removed. 

.SS storio_multiple_mode
Specifies if storaged starts one or multiple storio process(es).
       Valid values are :
           - "False"
             only storio instance 0 is started. It takes care of every storage instance configured in the storage.conf.
           - "True"
             one storio is started for each cluster declared in the storage.conf file. The storio instance is the cluster number. 

.SS nb_disk_thread
Specifies the number of threads within the STORIO process that can operate the disk read/write.

.SS crc32c_check
Boolean (True or False) indicating if a check (thanks to CRC error detecting code) will be used for detecting accidental changes to raw data.

.SS crc32c_generate
Boolean (True or False) indicating if a checksum must be generated (thanks to CRC error detecting code) for each write request.

.SS crc32c_hw_forced
That boolean (True or False) can be asserted if the information reported by cpuid does not indicates that hardware CRC is supported whilst the current CPU supports it.
This might be the case with VirtualBox.

.SS disk_usage_threshold
when set to non zero value, the storios log a warning when a device percent usage is over or equal to this limit.
.SS disk_read_threshold
when set to non zero value, the storios log a warning when the average read delay on a device is over or equal to this limit in micro seconds.
.SS disk_write_threshold
when set to non zero value, the storios log a warning when the average write delay on a device is over or equal to this limit in micro seconds.
.SS fid_recycle
Boolean (True or False). When set to TRUE, RozoFS starts recycling the FID upon file deletion. The threshold for which the FID recycling starts can be also
configured within the 
.B rozofs.conf 
file .
.SS trash_high_threshold
When 
.B "fid_recycle"
is set to TRUE, that parameter provides the threshold for which the FID recycling starts  .

.SS wr_ack_on_inverse
Boolean (True or False). When set to TRUE, RozoFS acknowledges a write request once a count of inverse projections have been successfully written. Otherwise, by default
it waits until a count of forward projections are written. By default, the write acknowlegdment anticipation is not set.

.SS allow_disk_spin_down
This boolean has to be set to enable the spinning down of the disks of a storage node. The STORIO monitoring thread periodically checks the file systems mounted on its disks. This boolean prevents the check to be performed in case no modification takes place on the disk (i.e neither write, truncate nor delete). So when no access is done to the disks, the monitoring thread does not either access to the disk, and the disk spinning down can take place.

It is no use to set this boolean when you do not configure a spin down timeout (see hdparm -S). 

.SS export_dscp
Value that indicates the DSCP that is associated with TCP connections used to communicate with the Metadata server. By default the value corresponds to Expedited Forwarding (EF) class.
.SS storio_dscp
Value that indicates the DSCP that is associated with TCP connections used to communicate with the Storage server. By default the value corresponds to Assured Forwarding (AF41) class.
.SS export_attr_thread
Boolean (True or False). When set, this flag indicates that the export has its attribute writeback threads activated (default true).
.SS rozofsmount_fuse_reply_thread
Boolean (True or False). When set, this flag indicates that the rozofsmount has its fuse reply threads activated (default true).
.SS export_versioning
Boolean (True or False). When set, this flag indicates that any deleted object (file/directory) are save under
.B @rozofs-del@ 
pseudo directory of the parent directory (default false).
.SS device_automount
Boolean (True or False). Default value is False. When set, the RozoFS devices are automatically mounted on the rigth directories provided that they have the destination mark file on them; the destination mark file is a file named storage_c<cluster>_s<storage>_<device> that tells what this RozoFS device is intended for. No mount instruction should be set in the fstab file for these devices.

when device_automount is True, the following configuration parameters become effective.
.TP 
.SS device_automount_path
This parameter gives the path where the devices have to be mounted. The default value is "/srv/rozofs/storages". That is device <device> of storage <storage> of cluster <cluster> will be mounted on directory <device_automount_path>/storage_c<cluster>_s<storage>/<device>. The 
.B root 
parameter in the 
.B storage.conf 
file is ignored and can even be omitted. All the pathes are automatically created when needed. 
.TP
.SS device_automount_option
This parameter provides an optionnal mount option that should be supported by the lowlevel file system.
.SS mkdir_ok_instead_of_eexist
When set to True this parameter makes the export respond OK instead of EEXIST on a directory creation while the directory already exist. 
This enables concurrent processes to all execute mkdir at the same time without getting any error. 
.B Be aware that this will prevent some application to make use of mkdir to simulate a lock between nodes.
.SS mknod_ok_instead_of_eexist
When set to True this parameter makes the export respond OK instead of EEXIST on a file creation while the file already exist. 
This enables concurrent processes to all execute mkdir at the same time without getting any error. 
.B Be aware that this will prevent some application to make use of mknod to simulate a lock between nodes.
.SS ssh_user
This parameter tells what user name to use between storage and export for ssh or scp when different from root. 
.SS ssh_port
This parameter tells what port to use between storage and export for ssh or scp when different from 22. 
.SS ssh_param
This parameter gives extra options to be used by ssh or scp ( -i <keypath> for instance). 
.SS client_fast_reconnect
When set to True, the rozofsmount updates some of its timers in order to reconnect to the exportd as fast as possible.
.SS disable_sync_attributes
When set to True it disables synchonous write of the attributes.
.SS device_selfhealing_mode
The self-healing mode is a string that can take the following values:

           - ""
             No automatic device rebuild can take place.
 
           -
.B spareOnly
             Failed devices are automatically rebuilt on a spare disk when one is available. 
 
           -
.B relocate
             Identical to "spareOnly" while some spare device is available.
             When no more spare device is available, files of failed devices are automatically relocated on remaining devices of the same sid.

For self-healing to be active, the 
.B export-hosts 
parameter must be configured too.
.SS device_selfhealing_delay
Gives the delay in minutes before starting an automatic rebuild of a failed device. The lowest possible value is 1.  
.SS device_self_healing_process
This parameter sets the number of rebuilder processes that run in parallel in case of an automatic rebuild for self-healing purpose. This is also the default number of rebuilder processes for operator rebuild commands.
.SS export-hosts 
This parameter is only needed when self-healing is configured. It gives the list of addresses (or dns names) where exportd daemon is running. When securing the exportd thanks to virtual IP address only the virtual IP address is declared (i.e "192.168.10.1"). When no virtual IP address is used the list of "physical" IP addresses of each host securing the exportd must be given (i.e "192.168.10.1/192.168.20.1").
 

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
.ta +3i
# sample RozoFS common configuration file
numa_aware           = True; 
trashed_file_per_run = 32;

nb_core_file         = 1;
core_file_directory  = "/root/rozofs/cores";

storio_multiple_mode = True;
nb_disk_threads      = 4;
crc32c_check         = True;
crc32c_generate      = True;
crc32c_hw_forced     = True;


.SH FILES
.I /etc/rozofs/rozofs.conf (/usr/local/etc/rozofs/rozofs.conf)
.RS
The system wide configuration file.
.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\".SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
Fizians <http://www.fizians.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rozofs (7)
