.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii storage_rebuild.8
.\"
.TH storage_rebuild 8 "DECEMBER 2014" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
storage_rebuild \- RozoFS disk rebuild utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP "Rebuilding a full storage node"
 all files          :
.B storage_rebuild [-r <exports>] [-p <//>] [-t <MB/s>] [-l <loop>]
 nominal files only :
.B storage_rebuild [-r <exports>] [-p <//>] [-t <MB/s>] [-l <loop>] --nominal  
 spare files only   :
.B storage_rebuild [-r <exports>] [-p <//>] [-t <MB/s>] [-l <loop>] --spare 
.IP "Rebuilding only one logical storage within a storage node"
 all files          :
.B storage_rebuild [-r <exports>] [-p <//>] [-t <MB/s>] [-l <loop>] -s <cid>/<sid> 
 nominal files only :
.B storage_rebuild [-r <exports>] [-p <//>] [-t <MB/s>] [-l <loop>] -s <cid>/<sid> --nominal
 spare files only   :
.B storage_rebuild [-r <exports>] [-p <//>] [-t <MB/s>] [-l <loop>] -s <cid>/<sid> --spare 
.IP "Rebuilding only a device of a logical storage"
 on the same device :
.B storage_rebuild [-r <exports>] [-p <//>] [-t <MB/s>] [-l <loop>] -s <cid>/<sid> -d <device> 
 relocating files   :
.B storage_rebuild [-r <exports>] [-p <//>] [-t <MB/s>] [-l <loop>] -s <cid>/<sid> -d <device> -R
.IP "Clearing error counters a device of a logical storage"
.B storage_rebuild -C [-r <exports>] -s <cid>/<sid> -d <device>
.IP "Rebuilding only a FID of a logical storage"
.B storage_rebuild [-r <exports>] [-t <MB/s>] [-l <loop>]  -s <cid>/<sid> -f <FID> 
.IP "Getting the list of FID that are to be rebuilt. Then use rozo_fid2pathname utility on export node to translate FIDs to full path names."
.B storage_rebuild -id <id> -list 
.IP "Pause a running rebuild in order to resume it later."
.B storage_rebuild -id <id> -pause 
.IP "Resume a failed or paused rebuild."
.B storage_rebuild -id <id> -resume [-l <loop>] 
.IP "Abort definitively a rebuild."
.B storage_rebuild -id <id> -abort
.B
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B storage_rebuild
rebuilds  
 . either a file on a logical storage
 . or a device of a logical storage
 . or all devices of a logical storage
 . or all devices of a storage node. 

When the rebuild fails, one can get the list of FIDs that have not been rebuilt. Then with rozo_fid2pathname utility on export node one can translate these FIDs to full path names.


A rebuild can be paused temporarily. It is then possible to resume a paused or failed rebuild (i.e only rebuild the files that are not yet rebuilt). 

A monitoring rebuild file provides information on the ongoing rebuild. The name of the rebuild monitoring file is displayed on return from the rebuild command except when --quiet option is set. In any case the name of the rebuild monitoring file can be found in the syslog file.
.SH MAIN OPTIONS
.IP "-r, --rebuild <exports>"
.RS
Use
.I <exports>
as the list of addresses (or dns names) where exportd daemon is running. When securing the exportd thanks to a virtual IP address only the virtual IP address is given (i.e "--rebuild 192.168.10.1"). When no virtual IP address is used the list of "physical" IP addresses of each host securing the exportd must be given (i.e "--rebuild 192.168.10.1/192.168.20.1"). This parameter can be omitted when the server has been installed with the
.B export_hosts
filled in the rozofs.conf configuration file of the server.
.RE
.IP "-s, --sid <cid>/<sid>"
.RE
.RS
Rebuilds only the logical storage instance 
.I <sid>
of cluster
.I <cid>
of the storage node.
When not set the rebuild operates on every logical storage instance of the storage node.
.RE
.IP "--nominal"
.RE
.RS
Rebuilds only nominal files and no spare file on a storage node or logical storage.
.RE
.IP "--spare"
.RE
.RS
Rebuilds only spare files and no nominal file on a storage node or logical storage.
.RE
.IP "-d, --device <device>"
.RE
.RS
Rebuilds only device number
.I <device>
of a logical storage instance. When this option is set option --sid must be set too. When -d is not set, the rebuild is done for every devices of the logical storage or the storage node.
.RE
.IP "-f, --fid <FID>"
.RE
.RS
Rebuilds only the file identified by
.I <FID>.
In this case --sid option is mandatory and --device option is ignored.
.RE
.IP "-R, --relocate"
.RE
.RS
Enables relocation of the rebuilt files on other devices. This is used for repairing data files of a broken device on the remaining in service devices. When not set the data files are not relocated and are so rebuilt on the same devices they used to be.
.RE
.IP "-p, --parallel <//>"
.RE
.RS
Use 
.I <//>
processes in parallel for rebuilding. The greater is 
.I <//>
the faster is the rebuild, but the more CPU and network/disk bandwith consuming it is. Use --help option to get the default as well as the maximum value.
.RE
.IP "-t, --throughput <MB/s>"
.RE
.RS
Limit the network bandwith used for reading data from the logical storages for each of the processes run in parallel. The value is in MB/s units. When 4 processes are used with a throughput limitation of 10, no more than 40MB/s of network bandwith will be consummed for reading during this rebuild. Default is not to have any bandwith limitation.
.RE
.IP "-l, --loop <loop>"
.RE
.RS
re-attempt automatically up to
.I <loop>
times the rebuild on files that fail to rebuild. The rebuild may fail on a file because of write competition between the rebuild process and a user write; a later rebuild re-attempt may then succeed. Use --help option to get the default as well as the maximum value.
.SH ACTION OPTIONS
.RE
.IP "-pause"
.RE
.RS
Stop a running rebuild. The -id option has to be set to identify the rebuild.
.RE
.IP "-list"
.RE
.RS
Display the list of FIDs that are still to rebuild after the rebuild has failed or was paused. The -id option has to be set to identify the rebuild. The FID list can be translated into full path names on the export node using the rozo_fid2pathname utility.
.RE
.IP "-resume"
.RE
.RS
Resume a paused or failed rebuild. The -id option has to be set to identify the rebuild.
.RE
.IP "-id <id>"
.RE
.RS
.I <id>
is the identifier of a rebuild.
.RE
.IP "-C, --clear"
.RE
.RS
To re-initialize the satus of a device that has been set out of service after an automatic relocation of the data on other devices (self healing) and then rebuild it.
.SH MISCELLANEOUS OPTIONS
.RE
.IP "-q, --quiet"
.RE
.RS
This optionnal parameter enables to avoid any display on the terminal except immediate errors.
.RE
.IP "-fg"
.RE
.RS
This optionnal parameter enables to run the rebuild in foreground while the default is to run it in background mode.
.RE
.IP "-bg"
.RE
.RS
This parameter enables to run a resume in background mode when the target rebuild was previously in foreground.
.RE
.IP "-c, --config <cfg>"
.RS
Use 
.I <cfg>
as storage node configuration file. This is optionnal parameter should not to be used in production.
.RE
.IP "-h, --help"
.RS
Print help.
.RE
.B
.SH EXAMPLES
.RE 

Rebuilding a whole storage node as fast as possible:
.RE
.B storage_rebuild --rebuild 192.168.0.201/192.168.0.202 --parallel 64
.RE 

Rebuilding every device of storage instance 2 of cluster 1:
.RE
.B storage_rebuild --rebuild 192.168.0.201/192.168.0.202 --sid 1/2
.RE

Rebuilding only device 3 of storage instance 2 of cluster 1:
.RE
.B storage_rebuild --rebuild 192.168.0.201/192.168.0.202 --sid 1/2 --device 3
.RE 

Rebuilding by relocating device 3 of sid 2 of cluster 1 on other devices:
.RE
.B storage_rebuild --rebuild 192.168.0.201/192.168.0.202 --sid 1/2 --device 3 --relocate
.RE 

Putting device 3 of storage instance 2 of cluster 1 back in service when it has been set out of service by an automatic rebuild with relocation (self healing)
.RE
.B storage_rebuild --rebuild 192.168.0.201/192.168.0.202 --sid 1/2 --device 3 --clear
.RE
.SH FILES
.I /etc/rozofs/storage.conf (/usr/local/etc/rozofs/storage.conf)
.RS
The system wide configuration file. See
.BR storage.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I /var/log/syslog
.RS
The log file. See
.BR syslogd (8)
and
.BR syslog.conf (5)
for further details.
.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bugs@fizians.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2013 Fizians SAS. <http://www.fizians.com>

Rozofs is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, version 2.

Rozofs is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH AUTHOR
Fizians <http://www.fizians.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rozofs (7),
.BR storage.conf (5),
.BR rozofs.conf (5),
.BR exportd (8),
.BR rozofsmount (8)
